# Figure 2 c/d and Box 2 from the Dorrestein Bile Acid Review for Nature Gastroenterology and Hepatology

### Figure 2 Legend: 
Distribution of bile acids and related transcripts/proteins. Distribution of observed bile acids as documented with the mass spectrometry reanalysis of data user interface100 in a) human and b) mouse. For transcript locations, all matches discussed are to “bile” in the c) Human Protein Atlas23 and d) mouse gene expression database101. Black circles represent the number of bile acid-associated genes or gene products observed in respective body locations. Overlaid is the information about the bile acid receptor proteins, FXR, SXR (humans), PXR (mouse), BAAT, and TGR5. All panels are made using Biorender.com. It should be noted that inferences of differential distribution should not be inferred between organisms from this figure but rather as a documentation where transcripts, proteins, and bile acids have been detected. It is also an incomplete picture as many organs or biofluids have not been studied by transcriptomics, proteomics or metabolomics, let alone under all conditions that may alter the detection but gives an overview just how widely the bile acid metabolic and gene network is distributed throughout the body. BSH = bile salt hydrolase, BAAT = Bile acid-CoA:amino acid N-acyltransferase.

### Figure 2 Discussion:

There are bile acid-associated proteins, transporters, and receptors in all tissues that have been analyzed by proteomics, consistent with a systemic role of bile acids as opposed to those proteins that serve a role in the enterohepatic circulatory system (Figure 2c, d). Some of the bile acid receptors like FXR, PXR, and TGR5 that are extensively studied in the liver and intestine, can also be detected in distant tissues such as the brain, adipose tissue, gallbladder and the breast (Figure 2c, d). 

### Box 2 Legend: 

Bile acid with age - Observation of bile acids in meta analysis of metabolomics data associated with different human life stages using [ReDU]: https://redu.ucsd.edu/, revealing that patterns of bile acids change as we age.

### Box 2 Discussion:

Upon reaching old age, there is a shift in the bile acid population that favors conjugates, traditionally being thought of as the glycine and taurine conjugates, which can fine tune amphiphilicity and receptor interactions. Previously unrecognized bile acid conjugates, such as Tyr and Phe, are more frequently observed in people over the age of 65 (BOX 2 figure) and shifts in microbial bile acid products such as lithocholic acid and deoxycholic acid, have been linked to the development of Alzheimer’s disease. In general, microbial bile acids appear to be related to age and cognitive risk factors. SXR/PXR activation and increased levels of Lithocholic acid, a Vitamin D receptor agonist may contribute to osteoporosis. Such observations suggest that the bile acid metabolic network changes during aging and that changes to this trajectory can play a critical role in the preconditioning of health homeostasis in old age. It is not implausible that alterations in the microbial composition early in life (i.e., treatment with antibiotics) with its subsequent effect on bile acid metabolism may lead to increased occurrence of immunological and/or metabolic disorders (e.g., allergies, asthma, IBD, atherosclerosis, diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome) later in life. Antibiotics have been shown to alter the bile acid pool of the large intestine, liver, and plasma in mice. These changes decreased insulin sensitivity. In centenarians, the right types of bile acid modifications can lead to improved metabolic health. For example, centenarians have been shown to have increased amounts of microbial-mediated oxidation–reduction reactions and epimerization modifications to bile acids, resulting in larger quantities of iso-lithocholic acid, 3-oxo-lithocholic acid, allo-lithocholic acid, 3-oxo-allo-lithocholic acid, and iso-allo-lithocholic acid. All are extreme hydrophobic bile acids with nanomolar effects on cellular receptors. It may be that such bile acids result in altered mitochondrial function and, therefore, in altered energy homeostasis, as lithocholic acid accumulation in yeast mitochondria resulted in an anti-aging cellular phenotype186. At least one of these lithocholic acid isomers has been found to inhibit gram-positive organisms, which may reduce the risk for systemic infections and aid in the maintenance of health. The presence of the common microbiome 7α-dehydroxylating bacteria and bacteria with bile salt hydrolase in the intestine is sufficient to alter the growth of Clostridium difficile. Thus as we age and our bile acid profiles change, so does our bile acid preconditioning to disease susceptibility. 

#### DOI link to paper:

 
